Add the Swift 6 release blog post. (#807)
swiftlang/swift-org-website: _posts/2024-09-17-announcing-swift-6.md

---
layout: post
published: true
date: 2024-09-17 10:00:00
title: Announcing Swift 6
author: [hborla]
---

## Extended Memory Safety, Embedded and Cross-Platform Support, and Swift Testing

We're delighted to announce the general availability of Swift 6. This is a major new release that expands Swift to more platforms and domains.

> Many people know of Swift as a language for app development, with a million apps on the App Store. But Swift is great for more than just apps. Swift’s safety, speed, and approachability make Swift a great choice for many other use cases including libraries, internet-scale services, and the most performance-critical and secure code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many people know of Swift as a language for app development, with over a million apps on the App Store. But Swift is great for more than just apps. Swift’s safety, speed, and approachability make it a great choice for many other use cases including libraries, internet-scale services, and the most performance-critical and secure code.
```

Part of the suggestion:
maybe 'more than a million' since it is not exactly a million and it implies more.

'it' since 'Swift' was already used to start the sentence

Other comments:
Possibly drop 'the most' and just use 'performance-critical and secure code'. 

Otherwise people may misread it as 'it's good for most performance critical and secure code'.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the feedback! Though from our side, we'd like to avoid the hyperbole of "over a million".

Reviewer: > Thanks for the feedback! Though from our side, we'd like to avoid the hyperbole of "over a million".

I understand although I don't know if it is actual hyperbole when the statement is literally true. 😉.

I do think the 'its' is better grammar than repeating Swift twice in the same sentence (especially after mentioning it by name in the two preceding sentences).

## Language and Standard Library

### Concurrency

Swift has long offered memory safety, ensuring that variables are initialized before they’re used, memory isn’t accessed after it’s been deallocated, and array indices are checked for out-of-bounds errors.  Swift 6 now includes a new, opt-in language mode that extends Swift’s safety guarantees to prevent data races in concurrent code by diagnosing potential data races in your code as compiler errors.

Data-race safety checks were previously available as warnings in Swift 5.10 through the `-strict-concurrency=complete` compiler flag. Thanks to improved `Sendable` inference and new compiler analysis for transferring mutable state from one actor to another, Swift 6 warnings about data-race safety have fewer false positives. You can find more information about the Swift 6 language mode and how to migrate at [Swift.org/migration](http://swift.org/migration).

Swift 6 marks the start of the journey to make data-race safety dramatically easier. The usability of data-race safety remains an area of active development, and your feedback will help shape future improvements.

> Swift 6 also comes with a new [Synchronization library](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/synchronization) for low-level concurrency APIs, including atomic operations and a new mutex API.

Reviewer 3: Ah fair enough, my mistake I thought we did! Congrats on the release! 🚀

> Swift 6 also comes with a new [Synchronization library](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/synchronization) for low-level concurrency APIs, including atomic operations and a new mutex API.

Reviewer 2: The congratulations belong to you too, @0xTim! Thanks so much for all the teamwork to get here...

```swift
do {
  let record = try parseRecord(from: myString)
} catch {
  // 'error' has type 'ParseError'
}
```

Typed throws generalizes over throwing and non-throwing functions. A function that is specified as `throws` (without a specific error type) is equivalent to one that specifies `throws(any Error)`, whereas a non-throwing function is equivalent to one that specifies `throws(Never)`. Calls to functions that are `throws(Never)` are non-throwing and don’t require error handling at the call site.

Typed throws can also be used in generic functions to propagate error types from parameters, in a manner that is more precise than `rethrows`. For example, the `Sequence.map` method can propagate the thrown error type from its closure parameter, indicating that it only throws the same type of errors as the closure:

```swift
extension Sequence {
  func map<T, E>(_ body: (Element) throws(E) -> T) throws(E) -> [T] { 
    // ... 
  }
}
```

When given a closure that throws `ParseError`, `map` will throw `ParseError`. When given a non-throwing closure, `E` is inferred to `Never` and `map` will not throw.

### Ownership

> Swift 5.9 introduced non-copyable types with the `~Copyable` syntax, which are great for modeling resources with unique ownership, and writing performance-conscious code by eliminating the runtime overhead associated with copying. Swift 6 now supports these types with the generics system, making it possible to write generic code that works with both copyable and non-copyable types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Swift 5.9 introduced non-copyable types with the `~Copyable` syntax, which are well suited for modeling resources with unique ownership, and writing performance-conscious code by eliminating the runtime overhead associated with copying. Swift 6 now supports these types with the generics system, making it possible to write generic code that works with both copyable and non-copyable types.
```

More a stylistic comment, but 'great' is used very often so may be a bit weak, something like 'well suited' more strongly implies that this is the proper language feature to reach for in these use cases.

Author: I removed some words so it reads "introduced non-Copyable types with the `~Copyable` syntax for modeling ..."
